README.md, before:

# `esp_wireguard`, WireGuard Implementation for ESP-IDF

This is an implementation of the [WireGuard&reg;](https://www.wireguard.com/)
for ESP-IDF, based on
[WireGuard Implementation for lwIP](https://github.com/smartalock/wireguard-lwip).

[![Build examples](https://github.com/trombik/esp_wireguard/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/trombik/esp_wireguard/actions/workflows/build.yml)

## Status

The code is alpha.

A single tunnel to a WireGuard peer has been working.

## Supported ESP-IDF versions and targets

The following ESP-IDF versions are supported:

* `esp-idf` `master`
* `esp-idf` `v4.2.x`
* `esp-idf` `v4.3.x`
* `esp-idf` `v4.4.x`
* ESP8266 RTOS SDK `v3.4`

The following targets are supported:

* `esp32`
* `esp32s2`
* `esp32c3`
* `esp8266`

## Usage

In `menuconfig` under `WireGuard`, choose a TCP/IP adapter. The default is
`ESP-NETIF`. SDKs older than `esp-idf` `v4.1`, including ESP8266 RTOS SDK v3.4
requires `TCP/IP Adapter`.

Both peers must have synced time. The library does not sync time.

A working network interface is required.

Create WireGuard configuration, `wireguard_config_t`. Use
`ESP_WIREGUARD_CONFIG_DEFAULT` to initialize `wireguard_config_t` variable.
Create `wireguard_ctx_t`.  Pass the variables to `esp_wireguard_init()`. Then,
call `esp_wireguard_connect()`. Call `esp_wireguard_disconnect()` to
disconnect from the peer (and destroy the WireGuard interface).

```c
#include <esp_wireguard.h>

esp_err_t err = ESP_FAIL;

wireguard_config_t wg_config = ESP_WIREGUARD_CONFIG_DEFAULT();

wg_config.private_key = CONFIG_WG_PRIVATE_KEY;
wg_config.listen_port = CONFIG_WG_LOCAL_PORT;
wg_config.public_key = CONFIG_WG_PEER_PUBLIC_KEY;
wg_config.allowed_ip = CONFIG_WG_LOCAL_IP_ADDRESS;
wg_config.allowed_ip_mask = CONFIG_WG_LOCAL_IP_NETMASK;
wg_config.endpoint = CONFIG_WG_PEER_ADDRESS;
wg_config.port = CONFIG_WG_PEER_PORT;

/* If the device is behind NAT or stateful firewall, set persistent_keepalive.
   persistent_keepalive is disabled by default */
// wg_config.persistent_keepalive = 10;

wireguard_ctx_t ctx = {0};
err = esp_wireguard_init(&wg_config, &ctx);

/* start establishing the link. after this call, esp_wireguard start
   establishing connection. */
err = esp_wireguard_connect(&ctx);

/* after some time, see if the link is up. note that it takes some time to
   establish the link */
err = esp_wireguardif_peer_is_up(&ctx);
if (err == ESP_OK) {
    /* the link is up */
else {
    /* the link is not up */
}

/* do something */

err = esp_wireguard_disconnect(&ctx);
```

See examples at [examples](examples).

## IPv6 support

Enable `CONFIG_LWIP_IPV6` under `lwip` component in `menuconfig`.

IPv6 support is alpha and probably broken. See also Known issues.

## Driver configuration

The driver configuration is under `[Component config]` -> `[WireGuard]`.

Under `WIREGUARD_x25519_IMPLEMENTATION`, you may choose an implementation of
scalar multiplication. The default is
`WIREGUARD_x25519_IMPLEMENTATION_DEFAULT`, which is derived from
[WireGuard Implementation for lwIP](https://github.com/smartalock/wireguard-lwip).
`WIREGUARD_x25519_IMPLEMENTATION_NACL` uses
[crypto_scalarmult()](https://nacl.cr.yp.to/scalarmult.html) from NaCL. Note
that, with `WIREGUARD_x25519_IMPLEMENTATION_NACL`,
some stack sizes must be increased.  In my test, 5KB for both
`CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_STACK_SIZE`, and `CONFIG_MAIN_TASK_STACK_SIZE` is
known to work on `ESP32-D0WD-V3`.

## Known issues

The implementation uses `LwIP` as TCP/IP protocol stack.

IPv6 support is not tested.  Dual stack (IPv4 and IPv6) is not supported (see
Issue #5). The first address of `endpoint` is used to choose IPv4 or IPv6 as a
transport. The chosen transport must be available and usable.

The library assumes the interface is WiFi interface. Ethernet is not
supported.

Older `esp-idf` versions with `TCP/IP Adapter`, such as v4.1.x, should work,
but there are others issues, not directly related to the library.

## License

BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License (SPDX ID: BSD-3-Clause).
See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

[src/nacl/crypto_scalarmult/curve25519/ref/smult.c] is Public domain.

## Authors

* Daniel Hope (daniel.hope@smartalock.com)
* Kenta Ida (fuga@fugafuga.org)
* Matthew Dempsky
* D. J. Bernstein

Commit message:

Hack to get it working with IDF 5.5.x

README.md, after:

# `esp_wireguard`, WireGuard Implementation for ESP-IDF

** Added Hack to get it to work on ESP IDF 5.5.x **

This is an implementation of the [WireGuard&reg;](https://www.wireguard.com/)
for ESP-IDF, based on
[WireGuard Implementation for lwIP](https://github.com/smartalock/wireguard-lwip).

[![Build examples](https://github.com/trombik/esp_wireguard/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/trombik/esp_wireguard/actions/workflows/build.yml)

## Status

The code is alpha.

A single tunnel to a WireGuard peer has been working.

## Supported ESP-IDF versions and targets

The following ESP-IDF versions are supported:

* `esp-idf` `master`
* `esp-idf` `v4.2.x`
* `esp-idf` `v4.3.x`
* `esp-idf` `v4.4.x`
* ESP8266 RTOS SDK `v3.4`

The following targets are supported:

* `esp32`
* `esp32s2`
* `esp32c3`
* `esp8266`

## Usage

In `menuconfig` under `WireGuard`, choose a TCP/IP adapter. The default is
`ESP-NETIF`. SDKs older than `esp-idf` `v4.1`, including ESP8266 RTOS SDK v3.4
requires `TCP/IP Adapter`.

Both peers must have synced time. The library does not sync time.

A working network interface is required.

Create WireGuard configuration, `wireguard_config_t`. Use
`ESP_WIREGUARD_CONFIG_DEFAULT` to initialize `wireguard_config_t` variable.
Create `wireguard_ctx_t`.  Pass the variables to `esp_wireguard_init()`. Then,
call `esp_wireguard_connect()`. Call `esp_wireguard_disconnect()` to
disconnect from the peer (and destroy the WireGuard interface).

```c
#include <esp_wireguard.h>

esp_err_t err = ESP_FAIL;

wireguard_config_t wg_config = ESP_WIREGUARD_CONFIG_DEFAULT();

wg_config.private_key = CONFIG_WG_PRIVATE_KEY;
wg_config.listen_port = CONFIG_WG_LOCAL_PORT;
wg_config.public_key = CONFIG_WG_PEER_PUBLIC_KEY;
wg_config.allowed_ip = CONFIG_WG_LOCAL_IP_ADDRESS;
wg_config.allowed_ip_mask = CONFIG_WG_LOCAL_IP_NETMASK;
wg_config.endpoint = CONFIG_WG_PEER_ADDRESS;
wg_config.port = CONFIG_WG_PEER_PORT;

/* If the device is behind NAT or stateful firewall, set persistent_keepalive.
   persistent_keepalive is disabled by default */
// wg_config.persistent_keepalive = 10;

wireguard_ctx_t ctx = {0};
err = esp_wireguard_init(&wg_config, &ctx);

/* start establishing the link. after this call, esp_wireguard start
   establishing connection. */
err = esp_wireguard_connect(&ctx);

/* after some time, see if the link is up. note that it takes some time to
   establish the link */
err = esp_wireguardif_peer_is_up(&ctx);
if (err == ESP_OK) {
    /* the link is up */
else {
    /* the link is not up */
}

/* do something */

err = esp_wireguard_disconnect(&ctx);
```

See examples at [examples](examples).

## IPv6 support

Enable `CONFIG_LWIP_IPV6` under `lwip` component in `menuconfig`.

IPv6 support is alpha and probably broken. See also Known issues.

## Driver configuration

The driver configuration is under `[Component config]` -> `[WireGuard]`.

Under `WIREGUARD_x25519_IMPLEMENTATION`, you may choose an implementation of
scalar multiplication. The default is
`WIREGUARD_x25519_IMPLEMENTATION_DEFAULT`, which is derived from
[WireGuard Implementation for lwIP](https://github.com/smartalock/wireguard-lwip).
`WIREGUARD_x25519_IMPLEMENTATION_NACL` uses
[crypto_scalarmult()](https://nacl.cr.yp.to/scalarmult.html) from NaCL. Note
that, with `WIREGUARD_x25519_IMPLEMENTATION_NACL`,
some stack sizes must be increased.  In my test, 5KB for both
`CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_STACK_SIZE`, and `CONFIG_MAIN_TASK_STACK_SIZE` is
known to work on `ESP32-D0WD-V3`.

## Known issues

The implementation uses `LwIP` as TCP/IP protocol stack.

IPv6 support is not tested.  Dual stack (IPv4 and IPv6) is not supported (see
Issue #5). The first address of `endpoint` is used to choose IPv4 or IPv6 as a
transport. The chosen transport must be available and usable.

The library assumes the interface is WiFi interface. Ethernet is not
supported.

Older `esp-idf` versions with `TCP/IP Adapter`, such as v4.1.x, should work,
but there are others issues, not directly related to the library.

## License

BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License (SPDX ID: BSD-3-Clause).
See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

[src/nacl/crypto_scalarmult/curve25519/ref/smult.c] is Public domain.

## Authors

* Daniel Hope (daniel.hope@smartalock.com)
* Kenta Ida (fuga@fugafuga.org)
* Matthew Dempsky
* D. J. Bernstein
